and translation Methodological notes Downloads and previous reports 2024 Full PDF (EN) 2023 Full PDF (EN) 2022 Full PDF (EN) 2021 Full PDF (EN) Malakal, South Sudan Deborah fled her home in Pigi County, Jonglei State due to violence and floods. She stays with her family in a displacement site and gets by collecting firewood and selling it in the city's market. OCHA/ Basma Ourfali Global Humanitarian Overview 2026 Overview Overview At a glance Foreword Crises and needs Crises and needs Response in 2026 Response in 2026 GHO: dashboard Monitoring humanitarian action: dashboard Press statement How to contribute Cash & voucher assistance dashboard 2025 in review Consequences of inaction Humanitarians in action Response plans Asia and the Pacific Europe Latin America and the Caribbean Middle East and North Africa Southern and Eastern Africa West and Central Africa Regional Refugee Response Plans Other plans More Overview Overview At a glance Foreword Crises and needs Crises and needs Response in 2026 Response in 2026 GHO: dashboard Monitoring humanitarian action: dashboard Press statement How to contribute Cash & voucher assistance dashboard 2025 in review Consequences of inaction Humanitarians in action Response plans Asia and the Pacific Europe Latin America and the Caribbean Middle East and North Africa Southern and Eastern Africa West and Central Africa Regional Refugee Response Plans Other plans Southern and Eastern Africa Published on 8 December 2025 Keywords Southern and Eastern Africa, 2026 Share Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share on LinkedIn Copy URL to clipboard Regional overview The Southern and Eastern Africa region is home to the world's worst humanitarian crisis with Sudan alone accounting for ten per cent of the global total of people in need. Climate change, conflict, political instability, disease, and economic shocks are driving humanitarian needs across the region. In 2026, more than 56 million people are estimated to need humanitarian assistance, representing 24 per cent of the global humanitarian caseload and a decrease compared to 2025, mainly as flash appeals in the region expired. The number is expected to rise in 2026 due to the ongoing conflicts in Sudan, South Sudan, Ethiopia and Mozambique, protracted climate hazards, deteriorating economies and exacerbating food insecurity and diseases. Funding cuts have massively affected the humanitarian response, leading many humanitarian organizations to scale or shut down operations and make tough choices to reprioritize people they target. In 2026, more than 7 billion is required to meet the needs of more than 34 million people targeted for assistance.ConflictConflicts continue to escalate, becoming more fragmented in nature, threatening to destabilize the entire region. Humanitarian space is constrained by expanding and intensifying conflicts, as the reduced humanitarian footprint shrinks. With some of the peacekeeping missions as well as partner presence scaling down, mainly in Eastern Africa, the operating environment will likely become more restricted. In Sudan, escalating conflict has triggered the world's worst humanitarian crisis, resulting in 9.5 million 1 people internally displaced and 4.3 million refugees. In South Sudan, unresolved political tensions and violence risk tipping the country into large-scale catastrophe. In 2025, the country has been ranked as the second 2 most dangerous country to be an aid worker. Meanwhile, conflict continues in Ethiopia's Amhara and Oromia regions, while tensions in Tigray risk worsening the humanitarian situation. The spillover effects of the war in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo have led to an increase in refugees and asylum seekers in Burundi, Uganda and Rwanda. In Cabo Delgado, Mozambique, violence has forced over 200,000 people to flee their homes in 2025.Malakal, South SudanSouth Sudanese who recently returned from Sudan, reside in Bulukat transit centre, receiving an awareness session on nutrition by a local partner.OCHA/ Basma OurfaliClimateThe region continues to be adversely affected by the impact of climate change with three of the ten 3 most impacted countries in the world (Eritrea, Sudan, and Somalia) in Eastern Africa. In 2025, Southern Africa is still recovering following the 2024 El Niño–induced drought. Tropical Cyclones caused heavy rains, flooding, infrastructure damage and displacement. Across several countries, agricultural production fell below average, while high food prices eroded household purchasing power. The climatic projection for the October–December and January–March periods indicates above-average rainfall, which is favorable for agriculture but may also result in flooding and disease outbreaks amid projections of increased cyclonic activity.At the same time, Eastern Africa has experienced severe flooding. In South Sudan, floods affected over 1 million people and caused widespread damage, while landslides in Kenya and Uganda resulted in multiple deaths and destruction of homes. The forecast for the October–December (OND) 2025 rainfall season indicates a high likelihood of below-normal rainfall across much of the eastern and southern sectors of the Greater Horn of Africa region (including southern Ethiopia, eastern Kenya, central to southern Tanzania, and much of Somalia), raising concerns about possible drought and food insecurity.DiseaseThe region continues to grapple with major diseases, including cholera, malaria, mpox and measles. More than 52 4 per cent of the global cholera caseload is in the region, with Eastern Africa alone accounting for more than one-third of global cases. South Sudan recorded the highest number of cases in the region, followed by Sudan and Angola. Also, mpox cases continue to be reported in Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia, with Burundi accounting for the highest mpox caseload in the region. With impacts on international funding used to bolster health services and systems, Governments will increasingly be left to respond independently to disease outbreaks and health crises using basic service networks with incomplete reach to people in need.Southern and Eastern Africa(Please use a modern browser to see the interactive version of this visualization)Table with 5 columns and 4 rows. Sorted ascending by column "Plan"Data is provisional and will be updated on humanitarianaction.info when individual plans are finalized. To avoid overlaps, some numbers are adapted when counting totals.Table: Global Humanitarian Overview 2026 Source: Humanitarian ActionMozambiqueCurrent People in Need 2.4 millionCurrent People Targeted 1.7 millionCurrent Requirements (US) $534.3 million Current People Hyper Prioritized 0.9 million Current Hyper Prioritized Requirements 265.3 millionGo to plan details (HNRP)GHO estimates at launch (8 December 2025)People in Need1.6 millionPeople Targeted1.1 millionRequirements (US) 347.6 million People Hyper Prioritized 919.5 thousand Hyper Prioritized Requirements (US)265.3 millionCrisis overviewMozambique is facing a deeply neglected crisis where humanitarian needs are rising rapidly amid worsening violence and repeated climate shocks. In 2025, Mozambique continued to face the compounded impact of protracted armed conflict in Cabo Delgado, with two incidents of violence against civilians every day, and growing insecurity spreading beyond the province. Over the year, the humanitarian situation deteriorated sharply as non-State armed groups expanded their operations across 17 districts of Cabo Delgado and into parts of Nampula and Niassa Provinces, carrying out increasingly coordinated attacks and triggering new waves of displacement.Violence against civilians surged to record levels, reaching its highest point since 2023. More than 208,000 people were newly displaced by mid-October 2025, in the heels of cyclone Chido having devastated the province in December 2024, overwhelming local response capacities. While some families sought refuge in displacement sites, most were hosted by already vulnerable communities or hid intermittently in nearby forests to escape attacks, thus creating a pendular displacement movement.Read more Collapse contentSomaliaCurrent People in Need 4.8 millionCurrent People Targeted 2.4 millionCurrent Requirements (US) $852 million Current People Hyper Prioritized 1.6 million Current Hyper Prioritized Requirements 350 millionGo to plan detailsGHO estimates at launch (8 December 2025)People in Need4.8 millionPeople Targeted2.4 millionRequirements (US) 850 million People Hyper Prioritized 1.6 million Hyper Prioritized Requirements (US)350 millionCrisis overviewSomalia continues to face severe humanitarian challenges driven by climate shocks, conflict, and disease outbreaks. In 2025, a prolonged drought in northern regions due to below-average Gu rains (April to June), has resulted in worsening food insecurity, severe water scarcity, lack of pasture, increased migration of pastoralists and heightened protection risks. Forecast of below-average Deyr rains (October to December) are expected to further heighten needs into early 2026.According to the 2025 post-Gu IPC analysis, 4.4 million people are projected to face acute food insecurity, including 921,000 in Emergency (IPC Phase 4), a 35 per cent increase from 2024. Key drivers of food insecurity include conflict, climate shocks, high food prices, and reduced humanitarian assistance.Disease outbreaks remain critical with 46,000 measles, 81,000 cholera, and 483,000 malaria cases reported up to October 2025. Nearly 3 million people are vulnerable to measles due to low immunization and poor living conditions. Cholera transmission persists in Banadir and Kismayo; diphtheria surged with 140 cases in September. Funding shortfalls are reducing response coverage and exacerbating vulnerability.Read more Collapse contentSouth SudanCurrent People in Need 9.9 millionCurrent People Targeted 4.3 millionCurrent Requirements (US) $1.46 billion Current People Hyper Prioritized 4.1 million Current Hyper Prioritized Requirements 1.04 billionGo to plan detailsGHO estimates at launch (8 December 2025)People in Need10 millionPeople Targeted4.3 millionRequirements (US) 1.5 billion People Hyper Prioritized 4.1 million Hyper Prioritized Requirements (US)1.0 billionCrisis overviewSouth Sudan is facing a complex, multi-layered convergence of humanitarian, economic, political, security, health and environmental crises. Civilians are caught in relentless cycles of violence and neglect, as the emergency intensifies with extreme levels of acute food insecurity, climate shocks, disease outbreaks, mass displacement, and cross-border pressures from the Sudan crisis. The humanitarian crisis, with over 10 million people in need, representing two-thirds of South Sudan's population, is inseparable from the country's unresolved political turmoil. Over 7.5 million people (53 per cent of the analysed population) are projected to face crisis or worse levels of hunger (IPC Phase 3 or above) during the 2026 lean season from April to July. Malnutrition remains critically high and continues as a persistent challenge. Some 2.1 million children aged 6–59 months are expected to suffer acute malnutrition and be in urgent need of nutrition services and treatment up to June 2026. Additionally, around 1.1 million pregnant and lactating women are at risk of malnutrition and in need of treatment during the same period, a 4 per cent increase from the previous year.Since 2019, annual flooding has affected communities, with over 1 million people impacted each year. As of November 2025, over 1 million people were affected by floods across six of the ten states. An estimated 2.6 million people remain internally displaced, many of whom have endured protracted displacement for over a decade. In 2025 alone, over 675,000 people have been newly displaced due to renewed conflict between Government forces and opposition groups, intercommunal conflict, and floods. The Sudan crisis continues to impact South Sudan, with a cumulative 1.3 million people arriving in South Sudan as of November, and many more expected in 2026 if the Sudan crisis remains unresolved. South Sudan is facing the worst cholera outbreak in its history, with over 95,000 cases recorded since September 2024. While nearly 1,600 people have died, more than 94,000 (98%) of all cases have recovered.Read more Collapse contentSudanCurrent People in Need 33.7 millionCurrent People Targeted 20.4 millionCurrent Requirements (US) 2.87 billion Current People Hyper Prioritized 14 million Current Hyper Prioritized Requirements 2.14 billion
Go to plan details
GHO estimates at launch (8 December 2025)
People in Need
33.7 million
People Targeted
20.4 million
Requirements (US) 2.9 billion People Hyper Prioritized 14 million Hyper Prioritized Requirements (US) 2.1 billion Crisis overview Well into its third year, the conflict in Sudan continues to fuel a humanitarian and protection crisis of catastrophic proportions. Civilians are being systematically targeted and terrorized, as horrific atrocities—including mass killings, summary executions, ethnically-motivated violence, abductions and indiscriminate attacks—are reported at chilling scale. Conflict-related sexual violence remains rampant and relentless, while children are recruited, abducted and subjected to other grave violations. Civilian objects such as hospitals, schools and markets continue to be attacked. Landmines and explosive ordnance litter large parts of the country, posing tremendous risks to the civilian population. As of October 2025, 2.6 million people have returned since November 2024—mainly to Khartoum and Aj Jazirah—while 9.6 million people remain internally displaced in Sudan, many of whom live in extremely precarious conditions. Across the country, communities report an urgent need to scale up protection, mental health, psychosocial support and other services due to the widespread trauma inflicted by the ongoing violence. Read more Collapse content References DTM Sudan Mobility Update (22) | Displacement Tracking Matrix Jump to reference 1 World Humanitarian Day 2025: South Sudan is one of the most dangerous countries for humanitarian workers | OCHA Jump to reference 2 Countries facing the highest climate risks in 2025 | Concern Worldwide Jump to reference 3 Southern and Eastern Africa: Cholera Situation Snapshot (As of August 2025) - South Sudan | ReliefWeb Jump to reference 4 About Glossary Privacy policy Terms of use Get OCHA and Humanitarian Action updates Get OCHA and Humanitarian Action updates Subscribe Do not fill in this field OCHA Services Related Platforms Financial Tracking Service Humanitarian Data Exchange ReliefWeb OCHA website Other OCHA Services ReliefWeb Response Inter-Agency Standing Committee Virtual OSOCC More OCHA Services Opens in a new window Service provided by United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs OCHA coordinates the global emergency response to save lives and protect people in humanitarian crises. We advocate for effective and principled humanitarian action by all, for all. Copyright notice Except where otherwise noted, content on this site is licensed under a Creative Commons BY 4.0 International license. Creative Commons BY 4.0
Source: Sudan hunger crisis deepens as UN warns millions face acute food shortages | UN NewsURL: https://news.un.org/en/story/2026/05/1167528Sudan hunger crisis deepens as UN warns millions face acute food shortages | UN News Skip to main content / navigation Welcome to the United Nations Language العربية 中文 English Français Русский Español Português Kiswahili Other Hindi हिंदी Urdu اردو Global UN News Global perspective Human stories English Search Search Advanced Search Language العربية 中文 English Français Русский Español Português Kiswahili Other Hindi हिंदी Urdu اردو Global UN News Global perspective Human stories Menu Home Global Africa Americas Asia Pacific Middle East Europe UN Art and Gifts History Corner Topics Peace and Security Economic Development Humanitarian Aid Climate and Environment Human Rights UN Affairs Women Law and Crime Prevention Health Culture and Education SDGs Migrants and Refugees In depth In Focus Interviews Features Photo Stories UN News Today The Lid is On UN Gender Focus UN and Africa UN Podcasts Secretary-General Spokesperson All Statements Selected Speeches Press Encounters Official Travels Media UN Video UN Photo Meeting Coverage Media Accreditation UN Web TV Language العربية 中文 English Français Русский Español Português Kiswahili Other Hindi हिंदी Urdu اردو Global Search Search Advanced Search Audio and Subscription Audio Hub Subscribe Sudan hunger crisis deepens as UN warns millions face acute food shortages © UNICEF/Antony Spalton Children and their families stand near temporary shelters at an IDP camp in central Darfur, Sudan. (file photo) Facebook [Twitter](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Sudan hunger crisis deepens as UN warns millions face acute food shortages&url=https://news.un.org/en/story/2026/05/1167528) Print [Email](mailto:?subject=Sudan hunger crisis deepens as UN warns millions face acute food shortages&body=https://news.un.org/en/story/2026/05/1167528) Sudan hunger crisis deepens as UN warns millions face acute food shortages By Vibhu Mishra 15 May 2026 Peace and Security Nearly 20 million people across Sudan are facing acute hunger and more than 800,000 children risk severe malnutrition this year, UN agencies warned on Friday, as civil war, mass displacement and collapsing food and health systems deepen one of the world's worst humanitarian crises and push parts of the country closer to famine. The warning came in a joint alert issued by the UN World Food Programme ( WFP), the Food and Agriculture Organization ( FAO) and UN Children's Fund ( UNICEF), citing the latest analysis from the global food insecurity monitor, IPC. According to the assessment, over 19.5 million people – around two out of every five Sudanese – are experiencing crisis levels of food insecurity or worse. More than five million people are facing emergency levels of hunger, while around 135,000 people are already living in catastrophic conditions marked by extreme food shortages, acute malnutrition and heightened risk of death. Although no area has yet been formally classified as experiencing famine, the agencies warned that 14 areas across Darfur and Kordofan remain at risk in the coming months if fighting intensifies and humanitarian access deteriorates further. “ Famine continues to threaten the people of Sudan, as hunger and malnutrition are threatening millions of lives right now,” said WFP Executive Director Cindy McCain. Tweet URLCindy McCain @WFPChief · Follow Hunger and malnutrition are threatening millions of lives in Sudan. The international community must move now with funding, access & the political will to stop this crisis from becoming an even greater tragedy. Our joint statement with @UNICEF & @FAOnews https:// wfp.org/news/joint-new s-release-wfpfaounicef-risk-famine-persists-nearly-195-million-people-face-acute-food… 4:34 AM · May 15, 2026 164 Reply Copy link Read 30 replies Sudan has been engulfed in brutal conflict since April 2023, when fighting erupted between the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), triggering widespread displacement, economic collapse and repeated attacks on civilian infrastructure. The war has uprooted nearly nine million people inside the country and severely disrupted agriculture, trade and access to humanitarian aid. Children worst affected Children are bearing the brunt of the crisis, according to UNICEF. An estimated 825,000 children under five are expected to suffer from severe acute malnutrition in 2026 – the deadliest form of malnutrition – representing a seven per cent increase compared to last year and 25 per cent above pre-conflict levels. “ Children suffering from severe acute malnutrition arrive at overstretched facilities too weak to cry,” said UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell. Between January and March alone, nearly 100,000 children were admitted for treatment for severe acute malnutrition, according to the agencies. Bearing witness to Sudan's suffering As Sudan's humanitarian crisis deepens, the human toll of the conflict is becoming ever more difficult to ignore. Photographer Giles Clarke, who recently travelled to eastern Sudan with support from the UN relief coordination office, OCHA, spoke to UN News about documenting lives shaped by hunger, displacement and war – and why sustained international attention remains critical. Here is a part of the conversation: Soundcloud Collapse of basic services UN agencies said the crisis is being fuelled not only by conflict and displacement, but also by the collapse of basic services. Around 40 per cent of health facilities are no longer functioning, while some 17 million people lack safe drinking water and 24 million lack adequate sanitation. Repeated outbreaks of cholera, measles, malaria and other diseases are worsening conditions, particularly for young children and pregnant women. “ The latest IPC results confirm what we are seeing every day in Sudan,” said Ross Smith, WFP Director of Emergencies and Preparedness, speaking to reporters in Geneva. “ Hunger is not only widespread, but it is deepening.” Aid agencies warned that humanitarian operations remain far below the scale required. Insecurity, bureaucratic restrictions and attacks on supply routes continue to block assistance from reaching many of the worst-affected communities. © WFP/Abubakar Garelnabei An eight-month-old girl receiving treatment for severe acute malnutrition at a WFP-supported nutrition centre in Port Sudan. (file photo) Lack of aid funding Only 20 per cent of Sudan's 2026 Humanitarian Needs and Response Plan had been funded by April, according to the agencies. UN agencies and partners aimed to reach 4.8 million people each month between February and May, but only around 3.1 million people received assistance in February. The agencies called for an immediate cessation of hostilities, expanded humanitarian access and urgent international funding to prevent further deterioration ahead of the lean season between June and September, when food shortages are expected to worsen further. “ To prevent further loss of life and starvation, we must urgently scale up emergency agricultural assistance to boost local food production,” said FAO Director-General Qu Dongyu. ♦ Receive daily updates directly in your inbox - [Subscribe here](https://news.un.org/en/content/un-newsletter-subscribe?utm_source=UN News&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=un_news_newsletter) to a topic. ♦ Download the UN News app for your iOS or Android devices. Sudan LISTEN TO UN RADIO 0 seconds of 13 seconds Volume 40% Press shift question mark to access a list of keyboard shortcuts Keyboard Shortcuts Enabled Disabled Shortcuts Open/Close/ or ? Play/Pause SPACE Increase Volume ↑ Decrease Volume ↓ Seek Forward → Seek Backward ← Captions On/Off c Fullscreen/Exit Fullscreen f Mute/Unmute m Decrease Caption Size- Increase Caption Size+ or = Seek % 0-9 War photographer Giles Clarke: We mustn't turn away from Sudan's suffering 0.25x 0.5x 0.75x 1x 1.25x 1.5x 2x Live 00:00 00:13 00:13 UN Interviews 13'52"  War photographer Giles Clarke: We mustn't turn away from Sud... Related Stories Gaza famine pushed back, but millions still face hunger and malnutrition, UN says Child malnutrition hits catastrophic levels in parts of Sudan Sudan's worsening famine: Conflict puts millions at risk Useful Links UN News In Focus: Sudan Conflict News Tracker: Past Stories on This Issue Armed drones leading cause of civilian death in Sudan war: UN rights chief 11 May 2026 Human Rights Drones caused more than 80 per cent of civilian deaths in Sudan's war during the first four months of 2026, killing at least 880 people, the UN human rights chief said on Monday, warning that escalating drone warfare could push the conflict into an even deadlier phase. Darfur: Two decades on, a new generation of children faces 'horrific violence' 28 April 2026 Peace and Security Twenty years after the conflict in Darfur first sparked global outrage, children in the region are once again trapped in a catastrophic cycle of violence, hunger, and displacement – but this time, the world is failing to take notice. Resources Button collapse Navigate the News Information for Broadcasters UN System Links Media Alert UN Journal Meetings Coverage Audiovisual Library Secretary-General Button collapse All Statements Official Travels Press Encounters SG Twitter Spokesperson's Office Button collapse Latest Statements Briefing Highlights Briefing Transcripts Notes to Correspondents Find Us Button collapse UN News App Facebook Twitter YouTube RSS Footer menu A-Z Site Index Copyright FAQ Fraud Alert Privacy Notice Terms of Use Social Media Links Footer buttons Donate Facebook [Twitter](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Sudan hunger crisis deepens as UN warns millions face acute food shortages&url=https://news.un.org/en/story/2026/05/1167528) Print [Email](mailto:?subject=Sudan hunger crisis deepens as UN warns millions face acute food shortages&body=https://news.un.org/en/story/2026/05/1167528) Back to top
Source: Supply Routes Snapshot, 10 May 2026: Regional Middle East Crisis ...URL: https://reliefweb.int/report/iran-islamic-republic/supply-routes-snapshot-10-may-2026-regional-middle-east-crisisSupply Routes Snapshot, 10 May 2026: Regional Middle East Crisis - Iran (Islamic Republic of) | ReliefWeb Skip to main content Help Log in ReliefWeb Search Content Search What are you looking for? Search|t Menu Updates Countries Disasters Organizations Topics Jobs Training Informing humanitarians worldwide 24/7 — a service provided by UN OCHA Iran + 15 more Supply Routes Snapshot, 10 May 2026: Regional Middle East Crisis Format Situation Report Sources Logistics Cluster WFP Posted 10 May 2026 Originally published 10 May 2026 Origin View original Attachments Download Report (PDF | 666 KB) Summary The humanitarian consequences of the crisis in the Middle East have intensified since February 2026. The effects of the situation extend across the region, with primary humanitarian operational impacts across Afghanistan, Lebanon, the Occupied Palestinian Territory, Syria, and Iran, creating supply chain and market disruptions in neighbouring countries and regions, including humanitarian responses in East Africa. Regional transport corridors, airspace, ports, border crossings, and fuel supply chains have been disrupted, resulting in complex cross border logistics challenges. This Supply Route Snapshot provides an overview of the current supply routes used by partners to continue operations in the region and provides key logistics information and analyses on the primary and secondary affected countries. Content The humanitarian consequences of the crisis in the Middle East have intensified since February 2026. The effects of the situation extend across the region, with primary humanitarian operational impacts across Afghanistan, Lebanon, the Occupied Palestinian Territory, Syria, and Iran, creating supply chain and market disruptions in neighbouring countries and regions, including humanitarian responses in East Africa. Regional transport corridors, airspace, ports, border crossings, and fuel supply chains have been disrupted, resulting in complex cross border logistics challenges. This Supply Route Snapshot provides an overview of the current supply routes used by partners to continue operations in the region and provides key logistics information and analyses on the primary and secondary affected countries. Key Situation Updates The crisis in the Middle East has remained largely static in recent weeks, with no significant developments affecting the broader operating environment. However, measures affecting maritime access to Iranian ports and adjacent waters, introduced on 13 April, remain in force. These measures were further expanded on 16 April, contributing to ongoing constraints on both humanitarian and commercial regional shipping activity and broader regional and global trade flows. The International Maritime Organization (IMO) reports that 20,000 seafarers aboard 800-1000 ships, as well as port workers and offshore crews are impacted by the ongoing situation in the Strait of Hormuz. During a Security Council session on maritime safety, the UN Secretary General emphasized the urgent need to maintain uninterrupted shipping flows, noting that disruptions have already had immediate global economic impacts. The Secretary General urged support for coordinated international measures to ensure the safe movement of vessels and protection of crews, while reaffirming the importance of upholding freedom of navigation, particularly through key trade routes. He also called for the restoration of normal shipping activity without discriminatory or restrictive measures. On 25 April, Pakistan opened six overland transit routes for Iran-bound cargo with the Transit of Goods through Territory of Pakistan Order issued by the Ministry of Commerce. The order enables goods from third countries to be transported overland through Pakistan into Iran, though does not include goods originating from India. More than 3,000 Iran-bound containers have been held at the Port of Karachi for several weeks, unable to continue to Iranian ports due to the ongoing situation in the Strait of Hormuz. Report details Primary country Iran (Islamic Republic of) Other countries Afghanistan Bahrain Egypt Iraq Jordan Kuwait Lebanon occupied Palestinian territory Oman Pakistan Qatar Saudi Arabia Syrian Arab Republic United Arab Emirates Yemen Sources Logistics Cluster World Food Programme Format Situation Report Theme Logistics and Telecommunications Language English Share Share this on Facebook Share this on X Post this on LinkedIn Share report link Related Content Jordan + 1 more World Bank approves US$100 million in financing to create 100,000 jobs for Jordanians, Syrian refugees Format News and Press Release Source World Bank Posted 28 Mar 2016 Originally published 27 Mar 2016 oPt On 100th day of Gaza genocide: 100,000 Palestinians killed, missing or wounded [EN/AR] Format News and Press Release Source Euro-Med Monitor Posted 13 Jan 2024 Originally published 13 Jan 2024 oPt UNRWA Commissioner-General on Gaza: Airdrops are at least 100 times more costly than trucks Format News and Press Release Source UNRWA Posted 1 Aug 2025 Originally published 1 Aug 2025 Afghanistan Afghanistan: Percentage of population consumed less than 2,100 Kcal/PER/DAY in Districts with Food Insecurity Prevalence >30% (NRVA 2011/12) and District Accessibility for WFP and WFP Partners (April 2015) Format Map Source WFP Posted 18 Jun 2015 Originally published 10 May 2015 Blog Labs About Us Terms Contact Facebook X LinkedIn OCHA Services Related Platforms Humanitarian Action Central Emergency Response Fund Other OCHA Services Financial Tracking Service Humanitarian Data Exchange ReliefWeb Response Inter-Agency Standing Committee OCHA website ReliefWeb Virtual OSOCC More OCHA Services Opens in a new window Service provided by United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs OCHA coordinates the global emergency response to save lives and protect people in humanitarian crises. We advocate for effective and principled humanitarian action by all, for all. ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions. © 2026 all rights reserved.
Source: COLLISION: USS Truxtun & USNS Supply Collide in the Caribbean, Feb 11, 2026 | Two VideosURL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XMy6fANc7W8on this episode of What's Going On with Shipping the destroyer USS Truckton collides with the supply ship USNS Supply out in the Caribbean we've been hit we've been hit i'm your host Sal Magliano welcome to this episode so I am the host of What's Going On with Shipping a YouTube channel that's been on now for almost 5 years i am a former merchant mariner turned maritime historian and we cover all things shipping my first job as a merchant mariner was working on these ships underway replenishment vessels as a civilian merchant mariner for the US Navy's Military Sealift Command we're going to break down that video for you and another one just released that we've seen and let you know what exactly happened and transpired in those videos if you're new to the channel hey take a moment subscribe to the channel and hit the bell to be alerted about new videos as they come out so this is USNS supply now this is the exact side the ship has gotten hit on now the ships were involved in an underway replenishment operation i'll explain what that is in a second the video that we just saw was filmed right here where you see these white life rafts here the second video was filmed up here on the signal bridge up here by the forward mast where they fly the international signal flags on it we believe USS Truckton the destroyer hit just after this forward fueling rig this is USS Truckton DDG103 she's an Arley Burke class destroyer uh both of these ships were down in the Caribbean Sea as part of operations against Venezuela so I'm going to show you the first of two videos this is the one you just saw a minute ago i'm going to walk you through this video i want to note again these videos were posted to social media they were not sent to me i did not obtain these uh by any nefarious method they're already out there so when we talk about operational security which we're going to talk about at the very end of the video here uh that is an issue that is separate from here okay I'm going to walk you through this video now a couple of things about this video uh number one the quality of the video is poor it's grainy i don't think it has anything to do with the camera that filmed it i think it had to do with the upload probably going through a Starlink uh they didn't get the bandwidth that they needed so first off you see clearly DDG103 right there that is USS Truckton so as I noted before up here this is the rack for the lifeboats you can see the white lifeboats there the horn being sounded I believe is from USS Truckton and the reason I believe it's Truckton Truckton sounding the horn number one is you get that loud audible in front of it so that horn is right you know you're right in front of the horn the other reason is Truckton seems to be having a maneuvering issue the Trxton was coming alongside USNS supply to conduct what's called a underway replenishment so this image here is not uh from USS Truckton and USNS supply that is actually USNS supply so here is US US USNS supply this is a Navy vessel and what Navy vessels do at sea to replenish their fuel is sail alongside vessels designated as underway replenishment or unrep vessels so the truck was coming and making approach and this is exactly what it would look like the Truckton would be coming from Stern on the port side the left side of USNS supply supply would be holding a set course in speed what's called Romeo Corpin so they would be on a set course whatever course that would be speed would be anywhere between 12 to 14 knots typically usually right around 13 knots is what you get the difference in this image is on the starboard side of supply would be another vessel and that is the USS Gettysburg now this is a method of refueling vessels that's been around for a really long time this is USS Mommy and a Navy destroyer during World War I this is literally how you do underway replenishments so the US Navy has been doing underway replenishments for a hundred years and collisions between vessels doing underway replenishment is not new this happens quite frequently unfortunately but I shouldn't say frequently it it does happen it it's not a common occurrence but when it does happen there can be quite dramatic now this early resupply here underway replenishment is done at a much slower slower speed probably about 5 to 8 knots and much closer together these ships are sailing maybe 40 to 60 ft apart this is a modern underway replenishment now the ship in the center there is a Kaiser class oiler it's a little smaller than the supply would but on the port and starboard side of this vessel are two Ticeroga class cruisers that's the same vessel as the Gettysburg which is on the starboard side of supply and I zoom in here a little bit for you what the underway replenishment vessel does is shoot over lines with a rifle they shoot over light lines with a weight on the end of it and then crews on board the receiving ship which is this cruiser here would pull across uh thicker lines until they're at the point they carry a wire across and it's kind of hard to see here but suspended between the underway replenishment ship and the receiving ship is a wire that wire is hooked onto a pad eye on the receiving ship uh locked in it's a big pelican hook so that if you need to you can pop it and release it you really don't want to do that under tension but what you'll do is tension that wire and then down the wire will slide these hoses these hoses carry the fuel in which to do the underway replenishment since you can do this under tension and you can keep the hoses out of the water you can be further away than that earlier image with the USS Mommy so instead of being 40 to 60 ft apart you can be 140 to 160 ft apart all right here back to the video so it's interesting that that horn kind of hangs up there for a minute i'm not sure what that indicates but they're sounding that horn again I don't think it is the USNS supply sounding that horn cuz if supply sounds that horn that would tell the ship on the other side that we're going to do an what's called an emergency breakaway we're going to break the rigs down very quickly i think this is an indication that the Truckton has lost maneuvering control and the ship is now steering into the supply that is 9,000 tons of steel crashing into 46,000 tons of steel right there at you know roughly around 13 knots we've been hit we've been hit that is probably the ship's master getting on the 1MC the general announcement alarm saying that the ship has been hit to port you can now hear the ship's horn going off it's kind of dull but you hear what I believe is the supplies horn going off indicating an emergency breakaway with the USS Gettysburg the starboard you don't want to stay hooked up to Gettysburg what you want to do in an emergency breakaway now is stop pumping make sure you're not pumping you know highly volatile and flammable diesel fuel and jet fuel under massive pressure through hoses that may separate and spray fuel and vapor everywhere and you know you're sailing through a cloud waiting for a spark to ignite so I'm going to zoom this in a little bit for you so you get a little bit of better view what you see now is Trxton going down the port side of USNS supply so one of the interesting things I noted here is if you look at the bow of Trxton she's not cutting through the water anymore she's not making a bow wave the ship has stopped basically they have taken their propulsion offline i also noticed that you don't see fuel oil in the water at this time but again it's hard to see in this image uh it's not very clear but there's no indication of a rupture usns supply which carries diesel fuel aviation fuel is a single hole tanker so a penetration of the hull would be very catastrophic you can get a fuel leak and spill so this video comes off Instagram much higher quality but there is no audio there is audio with it but it's it's come sail away from sticks i don't think they were playing that during this incident i and even though you do play breakaway songs at the end of an underway replenishment thi